# Rampler

Tool for subsampling sequences.

## Description
Racon is intended as a standalone consensus module to correct raw contigs generated by rapid assembly methods which do not include a consensus step. The goal of Racon is to generate genomic consensus which is of similar or better quality compared to the output generated by assembly methods which employ both error correction and consensus steps, while providing a speedup of several times compared to those methods. It supports data produced by both Pacific Biosciences and Oxford Nanopore Technologies.

Racon takes as input only three files: contigs in FASTA/FASTQ format, reads in FASTQ format and overlaps/alignments between the reads and the contigs in MHAP/PAF/SAM format. Output is a set of polished contigs in FASTA format printed to stdout.

Racon can also be used as a read error-correction tool. In this scenario, the MHAP/PAF/SAM file needs to contain pairwise overlaps between reads without any dual or self overlaps.  

## Dependencies
1. gcc 4.8+ or clang 3.4+
2. cmake 3.2+

## Installation
To install Rampler run the following commands:

```bash
    git clone --recursive https://github.com/rvaser/rampler.git rampler
    cd rampler
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..
    make
```

After successfull installation, an executable named `rampler` will appear in `build/bin`.

Optionally, you can run `sudo make install` to install rampler executable to your machine.

***Note***: if you omitted `--recursive` from `git clone`, run `git submodule init` and `git submodule update` before proceeding with compilation.

## Usage
Usage of rampler is as following:

    rampler [options ...] <reference length> <sequences>

        <reference length>
            integer denoting length of the reference genome (or assembly)
            from which the sequences originate
        <sequences>
            input file in FASTA/FASTQ format containing seqeunces to be subsampled

    options:
        -c, --coverage <int>
            default: 30
            desired coverage of the subsampled sequences
        -h, --help
            prints out the help

## Contact information

For additional information, help and bug reports please send an email to one of the following: robert.vaser@fer.hr

## Acknowledgment

This work has been supported in part by Croatian Science Foundation under the project UIP-11-2013-7353.
